{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 WenQuanYi Zen Hei;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Lohit Hindi;}{\f7\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Lohit Hindi;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 Normal;}
{\*\cs15\snext15\cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255 Internet Link;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext17\sb240\sa120\keepn\hich\af5\dbch\af6\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s17\sbasedon0\snext17\sb0\sa120 Text body;}
{\s18\sbasedon17\snext18\sb0\sa120\dbch\af7 List;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af7\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\noline\dbch\af7 Index;}
}{\info{\author Carson Holgate}{\creatim\yr2011\mo9\dy5\hr16\min44}{\author Carson Holgate}{\revtim\yr2011\mo9\dy5\hr22\min39}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern3300}}\deftab709

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\formshade\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\qc{\b\afs28\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28
Crowd Sourcing:}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\qc{\b\afs28\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28
The State of the Open-Source Software Development Model}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\qc{\b\afs28\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\qc{\b\afs28\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\ql{\b0\afs20\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20
\tab The goal of this paper is to describe the current state and future of the open-source software development model. Open-source software is software that is available in it's source code form; this means that anyone can view or modify the code in an open-source project. Most of the Internet's infrastructure runs on two of the more well known open-source projects are the Linux kernel and the Apache Web Server. While there are a few projects hailed as the staples of open source, in recent years the landscape has changed drastically. Why has this model worked so well? Why isn't it more widely used? Why should software companies care about what people are doing in their spare time for free?}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\ql{\b0\afs20\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20
\tab Open-source software follows what Eric S. Raymond calls the bazaar model [1].  Raymond compares the traditional software development model to building a cathedral, carefully crafted and built buy a few individuals working in isolation. In contrast, the open-source software development methodology is not as clearly defined but like a bazaar is a mix of agendas and approaches that is not as carefully crafted. The open source software development methodology flies in the face of traditional approaches. Developers are added on the fly and without warning. Anyone can touch any part of the code, though controls are placed on what gets accepted into the main branch. Software is even designed by committee. All modern theory says this should not work, why does it? }
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\ql{\b0\afs20\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20
\tab Part of the answer is the people who have been behind FOSS and their philosophy. Linus Torvalds started Linux as a hobby in response to Minix [2]. Richard Stallman started GNU in response to Unix [3]. These pioneers of open-source and others have one important thing in common: they think software should be freely accessible and useful. Another important aspect of the community is that it is a meritocracy. Unlike industry there are no office politics, or a pre-established hierarchy, if you get contribute you're in, if you contribute to the Linux kernel you're well respected because it's hard to get anything accepted by Torvalds. Does every project need these arrogant, all powerful, figureheads to be successful?}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\ql{\b0\afs20\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20
\tab Open-source projects have been largely unaffected by economic trends because the community is largely unpaid and volunteer based. The trend in recent years, however, is towards corporate sponsorship. Red Hat was an early company to successfully take an open-source project and make money off of it with Red Hat Enterprise Linux and service and support contracts. In return Red Hat contributes payed developers to the Linux kernel. Similarly Yahoo split off all Hadoop development into a new company called Hortonworks and is attempting to monetize the distributed computing platform. Another trend is taking internal products and making them open-source a few examples include IBM and UIMA (a major component of Watson), Facebook and Thrift, and Google and ProtoBuf. In either case the corporation benefits from the open source community while still using and profiting from the product. On the other side the community benefits from having access to the software. But what constitutes a successful open-source project? How can a company harness the power of open-source and still make money? Will the new model of offering services and support for open-source projects survive?}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\ql{\b0\afs20\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20
\tab One major limitation of the open-source software development model is that it is difficult for industry to harness. Raymond's bazaar model is full of differing agendas and variable time lines so it is difficult to focus a group in one direction to suit one company's agenda. A company has two options, throw developers at the problem and try to get the community to accept the input and the direction they are headed, or they can take the software and change it for their own needs in house. The second approach has its own set of issues with licensing. Open-source developers are very interested in keeping their work open and freely available so every piece of code comes with some kind of statement of use. Licenses range from the most restrictive at GPL2 which states that all modified code must be made public to Apache which allows anyone to use the code supplied in any manner. With the current software legal landscape how can any corporation risk the wrath of a horde of FOSS developers? In addition how can individual developers protect themselves from the abuse of software patents?}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\ql{\b0\afs20\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20
\tab I plan to take a look at all of these questions and make predictions about where the state of open-source software development is headed and what that means for industry.}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\ql{\b0\afs20\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20
}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\ql{\b0\afs20\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20
[1] }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html" }{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch
http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html}}}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\ql{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[2] }{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://groups.google.com/group/comp.os.minix/msg/b813d52cbc5a044b?dmode=source" }{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch
http://groups.google.com/group/comp.os.minix/msg/b813d52cbc5a044b?dmode=source}}}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\ql{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[3]}{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://www.gnu.org/gnu/manifesto.html" }{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch
http://www.gnu.org/gnu/manifesto.html}}}
\par }